Split Developer Guide (#144)
exasol/ai-lab: doc/developer_guide/aws.md

## AWS Build and Release Workflow

The following diagram shows the high-level steps to generate the images:

![image info](./img/create-vm-overview.drawio.png)

### Setup EC2

Creates an EC2 instance based on an Ubuntu AMI via AWS Cloudformation. It also creates a new keypair dynamically.
After the export has finished, the cloudformation stack and the keypair is removed.

### Install

Installs all dependencies via Ansible:
* installs Poetry
* installs and configures Jupyter
* installs Docker and adds the user `ubuntu` to the docker group
* clones the script-languages-release repository
* changes the netplan configuration. This is necessary to have proper network configuration when running the VM image

Finally, the default password will be set, and also the password will be marked as expired, such that the user will be forced to enter a new password during initial login.
Also, the ssh password authentication will be enabled, and for security reasons the folder "~/.ssh" will be removed.

> ### Tests
> 
> DSS comes with a number of tests in directory `test`.
> There are subdirectories clustering tests with common scope and prerequisites e.g. external resources.
> 
> | Directory           | Content |
> |---------------------|---------|
> | `test/unit`         | Simple unit tests requiring no additional setup or external resources. |
> | `test/integration`  | Integration tests with longer runtime and some requiring additional resources. |
> | `test/aws`          | Tests involving AWS resources.  In order to execute these tests you need an AWS account, a user with permissions in this account, and an access key. |
> 
> To run the tests in file `test/integration/test_ci.py` please use
> ```shell
> export DSS_RUN_CI_TEST=true
> poetry run test/integration/test_ci.py
> ```
> 
> Creating a docker image is quite time-consuming, currently around 7 minutes. In order to use an existing docker image in the tests in `integration/test_create_dss_docker_image.py` simply add CLI option `--dss-docker-image` when calling `pytest`:
> 
> ```shell
> poetry run pytest --dss-docker-image exasol/data-science-sandbox:0.1.0
> ```

Reviewer: The section about tests I think is general and not specific to AWS. 
I propose to move back into general developer_guide or somewhere else.

Additionally 
* The directory `test/aws` has been moved to `integration/aws`.
* File `test/integration/test_ci.py` has been moved to `integration/codebuild`.

```suggestion
### Tests

XAL comes with a number of tests in directory `test`. Besides unit and integrations tests in the respective directories there are tests in directory `codebuild`, see [Executing AWS CodeBuild](#executing-aws-codebuild).  To run these tests manually please use
 ```shell export DSS_RUN_CI_TEST=true; poetry run test/codebuild/test_ci.py  ```

Creating a docker image is quite time-consuming, currently around 7 minutes. In order to use an existing docker image in the tests in `integration/test_create_dss_docker_image.py` simply add CLI option `--dss-docker-image` when calling `pytest`:

 ```shell  poetry run pytest --dss-docker-image exasol/data-science-sandbox:0.1.0  ```
```

In file `~/.aws/config` add lines
```
[profile dss_aws_tests]
region = eu-central-1
```

In file `~/.aws/credentials` add
```
[dss_aws_tests]
aws_access_key_id=...
aws_secret_access_key=...
```

In case your are using MFA authentication please allocate a temporary token.

After that you can set an environment variable and execute the tests involving AWS resources:

```shell
export AWS_PROFILE=dss_aws_tests_mfa
poetry run pytest test/test_deploy_codebuild.py
```

#### Executing tests involving Ansible

For making pytest display Ansible log messages, please use

```shell
poetry run pytest -s -o log_cli=true -o log_cli_level=INFO
```

### Ansible packages

The packages to be installed by Ansible are using pinned versions, e.g. for [poetry](../../exasol/ds/sandbox/runtime/ansible/roles/poetry/defaults/main.yml).

In case ansible reports "no available installation candidate" for a specific version of a package, please search for newer versions of the package on https://packages.ubuntu.com/.

If the update is very new and not yet displayed on packages.ubuntu.com you can use

```shell
apt-get update
apt-search <package>
```

> 

Reviewer: Sections "Executing tests involving Ansible" and "Ansible packages" should also go to general developer guide.

* This is very useful if an error occured.
* If the creation of a sandbox finished normally the list should contain only the AMI, images (S3 objects) and the export tasks (one for each image).

## How to contribute

The project has two types of CI tests:
* unit tests and integration tests which run in a Github workflow
* A system test which runs on a AWS Codebuild

Both ci tests need to pass before the approval of a Github PR.
The Github workflow will run on each push to a branch in the Github repository. However, the AWS Codebuild will only run after you push a commit containing the string "[CodeBuild]" in the commit message, see [Executing AWS CodeBuild](#executing-aws-codebuild).

## Executing AWS CodeBuild

Use the following git commands to execute the AWS CodeBuild script:
```shell
git commit -m "[CodeBuild]" --allow-empty && git push
```

This will trigger a webhook that was installed by an AWS template into the git-Repository.
* The webhook is defined in file `exasol/ds/sandbox/templates/ci_code_build.jinja.yaml`
* and calls `aws-code-build/ci/buildspec.yaml`
* which then executes `test/codebuild/test_ci*.py`

> The CodeBuild will take about 20 minutes to complete.

Reviewer: I propose to move sections "How to contribute" and "Executing AWS CodeBuild" to general developer_guide, too.
